#Java Interview Questions With Answer


Question1:	What is OOPs ?	
Answer:		OOPs stand's for Obejective Oriented Programming System Language , the main purpose of oops is to deal with real world entity using programming language.
		The advantage of object oriented programming software development are shown below :
		
		a). Modular development of code , which leads easy maintaince and modification.
		b). Reusability of code.
		c). Improve readability and flexiability of code.
		d). Increase understanding of code.
		
		Object Oriented Programming System Language contains many significant featuers such as Encapsulation , Inheritance , Polymorphism and Abstaction.



Question2:	What is Encapsulation with example ?	
Answer:		Encapsulation is Binding wrapping code and data together into a single unit are known as Encapsulation.
		For Example : A capsule , it is wrapped with different medicines. 


Question3:	What is tightly Encapsulation ?	
Answer:		A java class is the example of encapsulation java bean is the fully tighly encapsulated class because all data members are private.
		
		#This is Encapuslation 
		Java Programming ==>	class Solution{
						private firstName;
						private lastName;
						public Address;
						private Email;
						}
		
		#This is tightly Encapsulation
		Java Programming ==>	class Solution{
						private firstName;
						private lastName;
						private Address;
						private Email;
						}





Question4:	What is Polymorphism with example ?	
Answer:		If one task is performed in different ways , it is known as Polymorphism.
		For Example : A boy start love with word and a girl end love with same word , the same word and different attitude. This conscept nothing
			      but it is polymorphism.



Question5:	How many types of Poymorphism ?	
Answer:		There are 2 types of polymorphism :

		a). Compile time polymorphism	(Overloding Method)
		b). Run time polymorphism 	(Overriding Method)



Question6:	What is Inheritance ?	
Answer:		When one object acquires all the properties and behaviors of a parent object , it is known as inheritance. It provides code reusability. It is used
		achive run time polymorphism.



Question7:	How many type of Inheritance ?	
Answer:		There are 5 types of Inheritance :

		Supported Inheritance
		
		a). Single Inheritance
		b). Multilevel Inheritance
		c). Hierachical Inheritance
		
		Not Supported Inheritance
		
		d). Multiple Inheritance
		e). Hybride Inheritance




Question8:	What is Abstraction with example ?
Answer:		Hiding internal details and showing functionality is knowns as abstraction.
		For Example : Phone call , we don't know the internal processing
		
		In java , we use abstract class and interface to achieve abstraction.





Question9:	What is difference between Abstaction and Encapsulation ?
Answer:				Abstaction			    ==				 Encapsulation
		a). It solve an issue at the design.		    ==		a). It solve an issues at implementation level.
		b). It focus on the external lookout.		    ==		b). It is focus on the internal working.
		c). It can be implement using abstract classes	    ==		c). It can be implement by using the access modifiers
		    and interface.					    	    (private, protected, default, public)
		d). It is the process of gaining information.	    ==		d). It is process of containing the information.
		e). The objects are encapsulated that helps to 	    ==		e). The object need not to abstrract that result in
		    perform abstract.					    	    encapsulation.




Question10:	What is Overloading with example?
Answer:		The same name and different arrgumnt types is called method overloading.
		For Example : Rest Password , the same name but different argument types.




Question10:	What is Overriding with example?
Answer: